ARAYES
SHRAK
250 g / 9 ounces
ground beef
250 g / 9 ounces
ground lamb
1 onion, finely chopped
1 green chilli, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
20g / ½ cup finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
1 teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground allspice
½ teaspoon ground coriander
½ teaspoon ground cumin
¼ teaspoon ground black
pepper
4 shrak breads (or substitute lavash, markook, or any thin bread)
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 cube of lamb fat, 20 to
50 g / ¾¼ to 1¾ oz
The best arayes (stuffed pitas) in Palestine are made in the old city of Nablus, a bustling food haven in the north of the West Bank. I always go to the best baker in the Old City, Al-Wawi, to get half-baked pita breads, and then head to Bashar Al-Mari's butcher shop, where they make the best arayes in town. The butcher expertly minces the meat in front of you, fills the pita, and bakes it in an oven, just until it is crispy.
Then he takes it out and rubs a piece of lamb fat, called liyyeh, on the hot arayes and gives them a last browning bake in the oven.
For the full experience, walk a bit further into the Old City, stop by the Al-Amad pickle shop, and get a variety of colourful pickles to enjoy with your arayes.
For this recipe, instead of using a pita, I use shrak, a thin round bread that can be rolled to make arayes. Enjoy these with yoghurt, tahinia, or a spicy dip on the side and plenty of pickles.
In a bowl, combine the beef, lamb, onion, chilli, garlic, parsley, salt, allspice, coriander, cumin, and pepper and mix by hand until evenly combined.
On a work surface, spread a shrak flat and cut it in half. Fill a half-circle of bread with 1 tablespoon of the minced meat and roll it to get a cigar-shaped araye. Repeat with the remaining shrak.
Preheat a gas or charcoal barbecue (grill) to medium-high heat or a skillet over medium-high heat. Brush the grill rack or skillet with olive oil, add the arayes and cook for 5 to 6 minutes on each side, until the outside is crispy and the filling is cooked.
Before you remove the arayes from the heat, rub a square of fat on both sides of the arayes and cook for another minute on all sides. Remove from the heat and serve.
MAKES 8 ARAYES
SPRING