Baked Eggs with Feta, Harissa Tomato Sauce
& Coriander
Baked eggs is one of my all-time favourite breakfast dishes. There is no joy greater than that of plunging in a piece of bread and pulling it out coated in unctuous egg yolk and whatever else goes with the eggs. Ilike my eggs spicy. Chilli provides a great way ofkick-starting your metabolism in the morning and harissa is a versatile condiment to have in the house for quick dishes. Chunks of wonderfully salty, creamy feta provide the perfect match for harissa. This versatile breakfast dish has been relied on for many wonderful evening meals in my home.
SERVES *
4 tbsp olive oil
5 garlic cloves, bashed and thinly sliced
3 large red onions, cut in half and sliced into 1em- (½in-) thick half moons
2 tsp turmeric
1 tsp ground coriander
I tsp ground cumin
½ tsp ground cinnamon
3 tbsp harissa
6 large tomatoes, roughly chopped
400g can chopped tomatoes
sea salt flakes
2 x 20g packets of coriander, leaves picked and roughly chopped 400g (14oz) feta cheese freshly ground black pepper 8 large free-range eggs
* To make the sauce, preheat a saucepan over a medium heat and drizzle in just enough oil to lightly coat the base of the pan. Sauté the garlie slivers and onion slices until they begin to soften and become translucent. Add the turmeric, ground coriander, cumin and cinnamon and stir well before adding the harissa paste. Put in the fresh and canned tomatoes, season generously with sea salt flakes and give everything a good stir, then reduce the temperature slightly and allow the sauce to cook for 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking.
* Preheat the oven to 180°C/fan 160°C/gas mark 4. Select a large baking dish (or 2 smaller dishes) and pour the spicy tomato sauce into it. Scatter the chopped coriander on to the sauce (but save a handful for garnishing the finished dish) and give the mixture a very gentle stir to loosely incorporate the chopped leaves into the sauce. Break off 2.5cm (lin) rustic chunks of the feta and dot them all around the dish, pushing some down under the sauce and leaving some on the surface. Make 8 evenly spaced craters in the surface and crack your eggs into them, season the dish well with black pepper and another sprinkling of sea salt flakes, then bake for 10-12 minutes, or until the whites of the eggs have turned opaque and are cooked through.
* Remove from the oven, sprinkle the last handful of chopped coriander leaves over the dish and serve with ortancend (see page 55) is ideal as you can