2 (/½ cup plus ı tablespoon a sland mixer fried with v for s minutes, or ami tre bad
nto a loured work counter, t es and shape into ball a a
3 pan over a medium beat y i both sides. As you cook wre em on top of each other a paper towel to prevent to nd cooling down compic illing onto each Balored, at then fold the cornes in te pe. Serve with sovel.
DAT FLATBREADS
le Finnish region of Savo 1a bread, it's more like a : baked in the oven. Often lighter meal with Egg Ba: utely delicious.
time: I hour
uttermilk
shed barley groats
butter
rley groats together in mperature overnight.
ven to 200C400 F
ng sheet with baking
its to the buttermilk and mix until con-
hined. You don't need to use a stand mixer for this dough. Use your hands to spread the dough out onto the prepared baking sheet and bake for about 20 minutes, or until it has a nice colour.
For image see page 171
FINNISH MILK FLATBREADS
Maitorieska (Finland)
Originally this milk-and-barley based flatbread was most common in the Finnish region of Ostroboth-nia, but today can be found pretty much across the whole country. Eat it fresh with some butter on the side and a glass of milk to drink next to it.
Preparation and cooking time: 1 hour
Makes: 8-10 pieces
500 ml/17 fl oz (2 cups plus 2 tablespoons) milk
7g/0.24 oz (½ tablespoon) salt
500g/1 Ib 2 oz (3 cups) barley flour
60 g/2¼ oz (½ cup) plain (all-purpose) flour butter, to serve
Preheat the oven to at least 250°C/480°F/Gas Mark 9, up to 350°C/660°F/highest gas mark if you can.
Mix all of the ingredients together in a bowl. The dough should be quite firm.
Divide the dough into 8-10 equal pieces. Knead the individual pieces by hand for a little while, then shape them into round flatbreads using your hands. They should be about 1 cm/½ inch thick.
Put the flatbreads on a baking sheet and prick them all over with a fork. Bake for 8-10 minutes, depending on how hot the oven is. Serve warm with butter.
FINNISH POTATO FLATBREADS
Perunarieska (Finland)
This soft and quite thick Finnish potato flatbread is often eaten warm with some salty butter spread on top. Perfect to make if you have leftover mashed potatoes.
Preparation and cooking time: 30 minutes
Makes: 10 flatbreads
5g/0.20 oz (1 teaspoon) salt
I egg
180 g/6½ oz (1½ cups) plain (all-purpose) flour
250g/9 oz (1 cup) leftover mashed potatoes butter, to serve
Preheat the oven to 250°C/480°F/Gas Mark 9 and line a baking sheet with baking (parchment) paper.
Add the salt, egg and flour to the mashed potatoes in a bowl and mix until it is a smooth dough.
Divide the dough into Io equal pieces and flatten them with your hands into quite thin, round breads.
Put the breads on the prepared baking sheet and bake for 8-Io minutes, or until the breads are nicely golden. Enjoy them warm from the oven with butter.
For image see page 171
175 Recipes / Flatbreads