572°F/Highest
Bas
sheet in to heat up. arge bowl and mix
½ cups) very cold your hands. Work to be cold when
her scrape it out
• it into 4 equal an even round hes, then prick e rounds on the or 7 minutes. If the rieska with sound hollow, r a little longer.
ites
on)
nperature owl of a solve the
g at low
1 with a nutes.
d work es. Roll all over rolling
Should be really thin.
pin, see iflustration page 158), to prick them. Ther race the breads onto several sheets of baking (marchment) paper. Preheat the oven to 250°C/480°F/ Ges Mark 9 and put empty baking sheets in the at warm. Place the breads (still on the baking rapers) onto the warm baking sheets and bake fo
+-s minutes
Preheat the oven to 150°C/300°F/Gas Mark 2 and line a baking sheet with baking (parchment) paper.
Spread the batter out onto the lined baking sheet, it should cover pretty much the whole paper. If you like, you can sprinkle some sea salt fakes on top. Bake for 1½ hours, then drag the baking (parchment) paper with the crispbread off the baking sheet and leave it to cool and become crisp on a wire rack. Break the crispbread into 8-10 pieces and serve with toppings or dips.
MIXED SEED CRISPBREAD
Fröknäcke (Sweden)
This is one of my favourite recipes in the whole world. first tasted it about ten years ago when my wie Tove (who also worked on a lot of the recipe development for this book baked it at our house.
It is deliciously textured, nutty, lightly bitter and sally: I found out after doing research that recipes like this, although not at all traditional, were quite popular in books with baking for people who suffer from celiac disease since they contain no wheat. I did some research into the way these recipes function and it even turned into a dish at my restaurant Fäviken: a super-thin linseed and vinegar crisp that's only one linseed thick and very tasty. Anyhow, bake them once and you will keep doing it over and over regardless of whether you
Preparation and cooking time: 2 hours
Makes: 1 crispbread the size of a baking sheet
70 g/2% oz (4½ tablespoons) sesame seeds
70 g/2¾ oz (½ cup) linseeds (flaxseeds)
75g/2¾ oz (½ cup plus 2 tablespoons)
pumpkin seeds
75g/2% oz (½ cup) sunflower seeds
60 g/2¼ oz (½ cup) cornflour (cornstarch)
5g/0.20 oz (I teaspoon) salt
50 ml/1¾ fl oz (3½ tablespoons) neutral cooking oil
sea salt flakes, for sprinkling (optional)
Mix all of the dry ingredients together in a bowl, then add the oil and 200 ml/7 fl oz (¾ cup plus r (ablespoon) boiling water. Stir well, then leave to swell for 10 minutes.
179 Recipes / Flatbreads